How easy was it to stay Kosher?
Well, it really was down to my mother, you know, and again other families down to the woman of the house.
There wasn't a dedicated Kosher butcher shop, but during my time and my memory there was a butcher shop
that on sort of one day a week somebody would come from.
The meat was actually, the cow was killed in the slaughterhouse in Cardiff and then whatever would come up to Mertha
and there was a counter that was specifically for, you know, kept for Kosher meat.
And so it was, I think again it probably was a Thursday or something like that, somebody would be there who would supervise
and tell you a little funny story on that.
Obviously Mertha wouldn't want more than the meat from one animal.
So the liver, which was sort of a sought after thing, you know, although I was never particularly a meat eater and I'm vegetarian now anyway,
but the liver was obviously one liver from one animal and that could be divided.
Perhaps one or two people could have a liver.
So there was a sort of a rotor or if it was your birthday or you know, or you had a celebration or whatever it was.
And I can remember my mother coming home terribly shocked in that she was talking to other Jewish ladies
and they all seemed to have liver on that day.
So there was a little bit of investigation and it was found that the butcher wasn't being too ethical and was feeding in non-Kosher liver.
So needless to say that butcher lost his license or whatever it was.
There was a slaughterhouse in Mertha that would kill chickens but not, they didn't do sheep or cows.
I can tell you another amusing little story really as well in that my father who shopped obviously was in the valleys
and he came home very excited one day and said that one of the farmers had given him a live turkey.
So he brought this turkey home and my parents said to me, we've got this turkey, take it to the slaughterhouse,
the shark has come in the morning, I want you to take it.
And I probably was eight, nine or ten, that sort of age.
So I think it's a pretty horrible thing to give your child to be killed.
Nevertheless, I did and on the way a very close friend of mine who unfortunately,
people have probably told you he was murdered in Cardiff Elliot Fine.
I don't know whether you heard about that but anyway he met me and said what have you got there?
I said it's a turkey, he said let's have a look, I said no, no, no, he said yeah and he persisted
and we opened the bag and the turkey ran all the way down the high street until we managed to get it.
Yes, so we could get kosher meat.
Then usually on a Thursday when my father came to Cardiff,
he would go to the various delis to get bread and smoked salmon or whatever they got in those kosher things
because Cardiff really was very rich then with kosher delis and butcher shops and things of that sort.